---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 1 - Enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud'
    module: 'Mitigate threats using Microsoft Defender for Cloud'
---

# Lab 1 - Exercise 1 - Enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud

## Lab scenario

You're a Security Operations Analyst working at a company that is implementing cloud workload protection with Microsoft Defender for Cloud. In this lab, you enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

### Task 1: Access the Azure portal and set up a Subscription

In this task, you'll set up an Azure Subscription required to complete this lab and future labs.

1. Log in to **WIN1** virtual machine as Admin with the password: **Pa55w.rd**.  

1. Open the Microsoft Edge browser or open a new tab if already open.

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser, navigate to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com>.

1. In the **Sign in** dialog box, copy, and paste in the tenant Email account for the admin username provided by your lab hosting provider and then select **Next**.

1. In the **Enter password** dialog box, copy, and paste in the admin's tenant password provided by your lab hosting provider and then select **Sign in**.

1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type *Subscription*, then select **Subscriptions**.

1. Select the *"Azure Pass - Sponsorship"* subscription shown (or equivalent name in your selected language).

    >**Note:** If the subscription is not shown, ask your instructor on how to create the Azure subscription with your tenant admin user credentials. **Note:** The subscription creation process could take up to 10 minutes.

1. Select **Access control (IAM)** and then select **View my access** from the *Check access* tab.

1. Verify that the **Current role assignments** tab has a *Role assignments Role* for **LOD Owner**. Select the **X** in the top right of the *assignments - MOC Subscription-lodxxxxxxxx* window to close it.

### Task 2: Create a Log Analytics Workspace

In this task, you create a Log Analytics workspace for use with Azure Monitoring, Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type *Log Analytics workspaces*, then select the same service name.

1. Select **+Create** from the command bar.

1. Select **Create new** for the Resource group.

1. Enter *RG-Defender* and select **Ok**.

1. For the Name, enter something unique like: *uniquenameDefender*.

1. Select **Review + Create**.

1. Once the workspace validation has passed, select **Create**. Wait for the new workspace to be provisioned, this may take a few minutes.

### Task 3: Enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud

In this task, you'll enable and configure Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type *Defender*, then select **Microsoft Defender for Cloud**.

1. In the left menu for Microsoft Defender for Cloud, under the Management, select **Environment settings**.

1. Select the **"Azure Pass - Sponsorship"** subscription (or equivalent name in your Language). 

1. Review the Azure resources that are now protected with the Defender for Cloud plans.

    >**Important:** If all Defender plans are *Off*, select **Enable all plans**. Select the *$200/month Microsoft Defender for APIs Plan 1* and then select **Save**. Select **Save** at the top of the page and wait for the *"Defender plans (for your) subscription were saved successfully!"* notifications to appear.

1. Select the **Settings & monitoring** tab from the Settings area (next to Save).

1. Review the monitoring extensions. It includes configurations for Virtual Machines, Containers, and Storage Accounts. Close the "Settings & monitoring" page by selecting the 'X' on the upper right of the page.

1. Close the settings page by selecting the 'X' on the upper right of the page to go back to the **Environment settings** and select the '>' to the left of your subscription.

1. Select the Log analytics workspace you created earlier *uniquenameDefender* to review the available options and pricing.

1. Select **Enable all plans** (to the right of Select Defender plan) and then select **Save**. Wait for the *"Microsoft Defender plan for workspace uniquenameDefender were saved successfully!"* notification to appear.

    >**Note:** If the page is not being displayed, refresh your Edge browser and try again.

1. Close the Defender plans page by selecting the 'X' on the upper right of the page to go back to the **Environment settings**

### Task 4: Protect an Azure virtual machine

In this task, you manually install the *Azure Monitor Agent* by adding a *Data Collection Rule (DCR)* on the **WINServer** virtual machine.

1. Go to **Microsoft Defender for Cloud** and select the **Getting Started** page from the left menu.

1. Select the **Get Started** tab.

1. Scroll down and select **Configure** under the *Add non-Azure servers* section.

1. Select **Upgrade** next to the workspace you created earlier. This might take a few minutes. Wait until you see the notification *"Microsoft Defender plan for workspace uniquenameDefender were saved successfully!"*.

1. Select **+ Add Servers** next to the workspace you created earlier.

1. Select **Data Collection Rules**

1. Select **+ Create**.

1. Enter **WINServer** for Rule Name.

1. Select your *Azure Pass - Sponsorship* subscription and select a Resource Group. **Hint:** *RG-Defender*

1. You can keep the default *East US* region or select another preferable location.

1. Select the **Windows** radio button for *Platform Type* and select **Next: Resources**.

1. In the **Resources** tab, **+ Add resources**.

1. In the **Select a scope** page, expand the *Scope* column for **RG-Defender** (or the Resource Group your created), then select **WINServer** and select **Apply**.

    >**Note:** You may need to set the column filter for *Resource type* to *Server-Azure Arc* if **WINServer** is not displayed.

1. Select **Next: Collect and deliver**

1. In the **Collect and deliver** tab, select **+ Add data source**

1. In the **Add a data source** page, select **Performance Counters** from *Data source type*.

    >**Note:** For the purposes of this lab you could select *Windows Event Logs*. These selections can be revised later.

1. Select the **Destination** tab

1. Select **Azure Monitor Logs** in the **Destination Type** dropdown

1. Select your *Azure Pass - Sponsorship* subscription from the **Subscription** dropdown

1. Select your workspace name **Hint:** *RG-Defender* from the **Account or namespace** dropdown

1. Select **Add data source** and select **Review + create**

1. Select **Create** after *Validation passed* is displayed.

1. The **Data Collection Rule** creation initiates the installation of the *AzureMonitorWindowsAgent* extension on **WINServer**.

1. When the *Data Collection Rule* creation completes, enter **WINServer** in the *Search resources, services and docs* search bar, and select **WINServer** from *Resources*.

1. On **WINServer** scroll down through the left menu to *Settings* and *Extensions*.

1. The **AzureMonitorWindowsAgent** should be listed with a *Status* of **Succeeded**.

1. You can move on to the next lab and return later to review the **Inventory** section of **Microsoft Defender for Cloud** to verify that **WINServer** is included.

## Proceed to Exercise 2

