---
lab:
    title: 'Exercise 01: Deploy Microsoft Sentinel'
    module: 'Guided Project - Create and configure a Microsoft Sentinel workspace'
---

## Exercise overview

You are a Security Operations Architect  working at a company that is implementing Microsoft Sentinel. You are responsible for setting up the Microsoft Sentinel environment to meet the company requirement to minimize cost, meet compliance regulations, and provide the most manageable environment for your security team to perform their daily job responsibilities.
You first task is to deploy a Microsoft Sentinel workspace. The solution must meet the following requirements:

- Ensure Sentinel data is stored in the West US Azure region.
- Ensure that all Sentinel analytics logs are retained for 180 days.
- Assign roles to Operator1 to ensure that Operator1 can manage incidents and run sentinel playbooks. The solution must meet the principle of least privilege.

## Exercise instructions

### Task 1 - Create a Log Analytics workspace

Create a Log Analytics workspace, including region option. Learn more about [onboarding Microsoft Sentinel](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/sentinel/quickstart-onboard).

1. In the Microsoft Edge browser, navigate to the Azure portal at <https://portal.azure.com>.
  
    >**Note:** Select the **Resourses** tab for the *Username* and *Password* for the lab. Use the **<LabUser-XXXXXXXX@LODSPRODXXX.onmicrosoft.com>** account for this lab.

1. In the **Sign in** dialog box, copy, and paste in the tenant Email account for the admin username provided by your lab hosting provider and then select **Next**.

1. In the **Enter password** dialog box, copy, and paste in the admin's tenant password provided by your lab hosting provider and then select **Sign in**.
1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type "Microsoft Sentinel", then select

1. Select **+ Create**.

1. Select **Create a new workspace**.

1. Select "RG2" as the Resource Group

1. Enter a unique name for the Log Analytics workspace

1. Select "West US" as the region for the workspace.

1. Select **Review + create** to validate the new workspace.

1. Select **Create** to deploy the workspace.

### Task 2 - Deploy Microsoft Sentinel to a workspace

Deploy Microsoft Sentinel to the workspace.

1. When the workspace deployment completes, select **Refresh** to display the new workspace.

1. Select the workspace you want to add Sentinel to (created in Task 1).

1. Select **Add**.

### Task 3 - Configure data retention

1. In the Microsoft Azure "breadcrumb" menu, select **Home**.

1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type "Log Analytics" and select the workspace created in Task 1.

1. Expand the *Settings* section in the navigation menu and select **Usage and estimated costs**.

1. Select **Data retention**.

1. Change data retention period to **180 days**.

1. Select **OK**.

## Proceed to Exercise 2
